





























































Retrieved 

from 

"

?

/

" title=Cloud_computing&oldid=902497865 

x x Close 

Celebrate PRIDE and share your LGBT+ photographs, and health and 

art writing in our competition. #wikilovespride Take part 

Cloud Jump Jump computing 

From to to Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 

navigation search 

For the winner of the 2017 Preakness Stakes, see Cloud Computing (horse) . 

Cloud computing computer system resources data storage computing power 

is the on-demand availability of , especially and Internet , without direct active 

management by the user. The term is generally used to describe data centers available to many users over the . Large clouds, predominant today, 

often have edge functions server distributed over multiple locations from central servers. If the connection to the user is relatively close, it may be designated an . 

Clouds may be limited to a single organization (enterprise clouds  ), be available to many organizations (public cloud), or a combination of both 

(hybrid cloud ). 

Cloud computing relies on sharing of resources to achieve coherence and economies of scale . 

Advocates of public and hybrid clouds note that cloud computing allows companies to avoid or minimize up-front IT infrastructure costs. Proponents also 

claim that cloud computing allows enterprises to get their applications up and running faster, with improved manageability and less maintenance, and that it 

enables IT teams to more rapidly adjust resources to meet fluctuating and unpredictable demand.   Cloud providers typically use a "pay-as-you-go" Cloud computing metaphor: the 

model, which can lead to unexpected operating expenses if administrators are not familiarized with cloud-pricing models.  group of networked elements providing services need not be individually 

The availability of high-capacity networks, low-cost computers and storage devices as well as the widespread adoption of hardware virtualization , addressed or , managed by users; 

service-oriented architecture and autonomic and utility computing has led to growth in cloud computing.    instead, the entire provider-managed 

suite of hardware and software can be 

Contents thought of as an amorphous cloud. 

1 History 

1.1 Early history 

1.2 2000s 

1.3 2010s 

2 Similar concepts 